When I invest (outside of YC) I make offers with the
following term sheet.  I’ve tried to make
the terms reflect what I wanted when I was a founder.  A few people have asked me if I’d share it,
so here it is.  I think it’s pretty
founder-friendly.
If you believe the upside risk theory, then it makes sense
to offer compelling terms and forgo some downside protection to get the best
companies to want to work with you.
What’s most important is what’s not in it:
*No option pool. 
Taking the option pool out of the pre-money valuation (ie, diluting only
founders and not investors for future hires) is just a way to artificially manipulate
valuation.  New hires benefit everyone
and should dilute everyone.
*The company doesn’t have to pay any of my legal fees.  Requiring the company to pay investors’ legal
fees always struck me as particularly egregious—the company can probably make
better use of the money than investors can, so I’ll pay my own legal fees for the round
(in a simple deal with no back and forth they always end up super low anyway).
*No expiration.  I got
burned once by an exploding offer and haven’t forgotten it; the founders can
take as much time as they want to think about it.  In practice, people usually decide pretty
quickly.
*No confidentiality. 
Founder/investor relationships are long and important.  The founders should talk to whomever they
want, and if they want to tell people what I offered them, I don’t really
care.  Investors certainly tell each
other what they offer companies. (Once we shake hands on a deal, of course, I
expect the founders to honor it.)
*No participating preferred, non-standard liquidation
preference, etc.  There is a 1x liquidation
preference, but I’m willing to forgo even that and buy common shares (and
sometimes do, although it has implications on the strike price for employee
options so most founders don’t want it). 
In early-stage investing, you should not focus on downside protection.
I have an allergic reaction to complex deal structures, as
they invariably end up with all sorts of unintended consequences.  Also, getting this right in early rounds is
important—future rounds tend to do whatever the previous rounds did.
(What I do care about is ownership percentage and pro rata
rights to maintain that ownership percentage in future rounds.  Most of the rest I don’t care about, but it’s
never contentious anyway.)
 
Download term_sheet.pdf


