There is a recent trend in Silicon Valley towards party
rounds—in early financing rounds, instead of raising large amounts of money
from a few large investors, companies are instead raising small amounts of
money from many small investors.  The
number of investors in such a round is commonly between 10 and 20, but I’ve
seen rounds with over 50 investors.
I think the rising popularity of party rounds is bad for
companies.
Ask some startups how useful their investors are, and you’ll
get a variety of responses, but some commonalities emerge. It turns out that
investors are generally about as involved as they are invested. Having at least
one investor very focused on your company is valuable, even if the investor is
not very good.  The cadence and rhythm of
meeting with someone every month to review progress and goals turns out to be an
important focusing function [1].
In a typical party round, no single investor cares enough to
think about the company multiple times a day. 
Each investor assumes that at least 1 of the N other investors will be
closely involved, but in fact no one is, and the companies sometimes wander off
into a very unfocused wilderness.
While it’s true that many investors are bad, I have found
wonderful exceptions.  Good investors
stay out of the way when you don’t need them and help you a lot when you
do.  This is really valuable—it turns out
that most of the great companies end up having great investors.
Additionally, a closely involved investor will help
coordinate your next round, and can bridge the company if necessary (things
often take longer than founders plan). 
I’ve noticed that companies that raise party rounds seem to have a
harder time raising their next round compared to companies that raised their
first big round from a VC.
Perhaps another reason that party round companies have a
harder time raising capital is that worse companies get funded this
way—everyone seems less disciplined in deciding to invest.  Social proof plays a large role, and because
the amounts are smaller people don’t think as hard about the quality of the
business.
I’m all for seeing founders have more power and more
ownership, and I’m all for VCs being forced to evolve, but I don’t think that
having party rounds replace what used to be an A round is the answer.
 
[1] There is a version of this that makes Y Combinator
work—the deadline of Demo Day is extremely good at focusing companies on the
right things.
